2019/03/03

launched everything.
jobs seems to be averaging about 0.5 days per cam/ccd tuple.

after what looks like successful completion of projids 1300-1306, which are:
cam1, ccd1-4
cam2, ccd1-3

2019/03/06
realized for the GI proposal that we might want better images in the vicinity
of NGC 2506 (southern beehive).

stopped the job in the middle of projid1307, during an initial astrometry step.
(cam2ccd4)

restarted from cam4 ccd1. (will do those ccds first)

--------------------

2019/04/09

unclear how well above jobs are working. the TFA lightcurves look overfit. you
might sometimes still be able to get HJs. who knows.

at the bright end, they also appear to be "bimodal" -- some are substantially
more variable than they should be. this looks like it might be a feature
already in the instrumental raw magnitudes, rather than an artifact of the TFA
subtraction.

what could put it into the raw magnitudes?

* background subtraction as-implemented introduces extra noise
  ( if the background varies, so does the average value -> subtracting it out
    multiple times adds noise)

*  maybe magnitude-fitting, which was being called as part of the fiphot
   command on the image-subtracted frames, introduces it. the "raw
   instrumental" magnitudes are in fact not that. they are processed through
   an additional spatial polynomial, and color-dependent polynomial.

   so basically, the "magnitude fitting" and "EPD" procedures are just ways of
   saying "we fit polynomials in different ways". magnitude fitting is on a
   per-frame basis. and EPD is on a lightcurve basis.  neither should be
   particularly relevant in the case of these tess images.

    - run projid_1472. s1, cam3, ccd1. down to G_RP=13.

    * hope to learn: does removing the "magnitude-fitting" step actually
      negatively impact anything? if not, keep it removed.



- additionally there were some issues introduced by incorrect "badtimes". (for
  sector 1, at least).
  - i have dealt with this by fixing the time windows.
